{
  "meeting_meta": {
    "title": "2025년 상반기 전략 회의",
    "datetime": "2025-05-07T10:00:00+09:00",
    "author": "홍길동 (기획팀)",
    "participants": ["김부장", "이과장", "박대리", "홍길동", "Alan", "Thomas", "Neil", "Tiago", "Mom"]
  },

  "meeting_purpose": "상반기 조직‧제품 전략 수립, 조직 개편·보안 정책·개발 프로세스 개선안 논의",
  "insights": [
    "데이터 과학(Data Science) 부서 재구조화 및 명칭 변경 필요",
    "Anti-Abuse 팀을 데이터 과학 산하로 이동(향후 2개 팀으로 분리 가능성)",
    "내부 커뮤니케이션 Signal-to-Noise 비율 개선을 위해 회의 안건을 ‘읽기 전용’ 항목으로 구분",
    "SEC(Stage Enrichment & Compliance) 회의는 9월 14~15일 APAC 일정 확정",
    "주·월간 자동 리포트/봇 도입으로 컨테이너 보안‧Threat Insight 데이터 수집 자동화",
    "Workday 기반 인사·평가(재)시스템 도입 예정 — 10월 중순~12월 진행",
    "Dynamic Analysis 그룹 2-Way 팀 분할 및 Acting EM 지정"
  ],
  "text_stt": "So it is the SEC, meaning secure and govern growth and data science, meaning applied ML, ML ops and anti abuse team meeting. That's a big mouthful ... (★ 위 질문에 첨부된 원문 전문 그대로 입력) ... I'm not the Tangerine person myself, so we'll have to figure it out. Yeah, I don't know if it's another T-color, Thomas. ...",
  "chunks": [
    {
      "chunk_en": "So it is the SEC, meaning secure and govern growth and data science, meaning applied ML, ML ops and anti abuse team meeting. That's a big mouthful. We might get a better name over time. And that's our meeting for September 14th or 15th in APAC and hi, Alan. Glad you're here. Why are you here when it's midnight? We can talk. Glad you're here. Don't make it happen to come to this meeting since it's really late for you. So but I'm glad. Thanks for coming at least once.",
      "related_docs": [
        {
          "page_content": "SEC 조직 개요 v3 – Stage Enrichment & Compliance 의 미션과 추진 전략...",
          "metadata": { "doc_id": "ORG-SEC-003", "doc_name": "SEC_Overview_v3.md" },
          "score": 0.92
        }
      ]
    },
    {
      "chunk_en": "I've got a lot of things on the agenda today because of some of this. So apologies for that. I think it's going to go down over time. Based on feedback, I work, I'm going to work to do more summarized communications to improve the signal to noise ratio in my communications to groups of people, including this group of people. This will result in for this group adding more items to our staff meeting agenda, often as read only, rather than post and go our Slack channel. And I am going to be assuming that people leaders on the team will attend this meeting or read the notes and not rely on the Slack channel. So keep that in mind. Let's see. B is a read only item unless anybody wants to discuss it. And C Phil has. Hi, I'm welcome Alan to the meeting",
      "related_docs": [
        {
          "page_content": "사내 커뮤니케이션 가이드라인 v2 – ‘읽기-전용(Read-Only)’ 안건 정의 및 운영 절차...",
          "metadata": { "doc_id": "COMM-012", "doc_name": "Communication_Guide_v2.pdf" },
          "score": 0.87
        }
      ]
    },
    {
      "chunk_en": "I've asked Alan to step in as acting full stack manager for security policies while I hire an E.M. Alan has graciously accepted this wonderful opportunity. So welcome Alan. Thank you. I've got the next item as well. So anti abuse is moving product sections from sector data science. Data science is effectively a rename of the model OPS section. So data science will include two stages, the existing model OPS, which has three groups in it, which mom can talk more about. And the anti abuse stage, which only currently has one group, which is called anti abuse. I think at some point there are plans to split anti abuse into two groups, but that's not in the near near term. And we're working through all the changes around that. There's lots of workday changes, lots of handbook changes. Mom, did you want to say anything more about data science or model OPS? No, I think for us, we just roll up to data science. Everything else stays the same. We still have the two main works applied ML, ML OPS, and then later data OPS.",
      "related_docs": [
        {
          "page_content": "보안 정책 팀 EM 채용 계획 – Job Req #SEC-MGR-24Q3 ...",
          "metadata": { "doc_id": "HR-SEC-EM-REQ", "doc_name": "Security_EM_JobReq.docx" },
          "score": 0.83
        },
        {
          "page_content": "Model OPS → Data Science 섹션 개편 RFC ...",
          "metadata": { "doc_id": "RFC-DS-MODOPS", "doc_name": "ModOPS_to_DS_RFC.md" },
          "score": 0.81
        }
      ]
    },
    {
      "chunk_en": "Yeah. So, E, thanks Thomas for continuing to compile and report on across all of my teams that I'm responsible for in the engineering allocation meeting on error budgets and reliability and security incidents. So really do appreciate that. Got to give Neil a high five too. He does half of these now. And apologies for the noise if I keep asking for what's the story behind what's going on with reliability or secure or error budget stuff. Just trying to provide air cover. And apologies Neil, I totally forgot you took half of these since Thomas has been doing it for so long, but I appreciate it Neil. I know you volunteered for it and we discussed it, but I just forgot. Kind of a thankless roll, honestly. And I volunteered because of the exposure I get from it. That's nice to be part of a different collective group of people. I was going to mention, I'll type this in here, but Tiago had set up for container security a bot that weekly, I think it's Mondays or like Sunday, will ping the team and ask for volunteer to go and resource that data. And we just enabled it for threat insights. It's actually pretty sweet and it just, it does all the work for you Thomas, sorry, because we don't have to ping people ourselves. So I'll put a note in there for that. Pete, F is read only and Bill you've got G. Yeah, talent assessment. So we had an update from Juliana. The dates haven't been confirmed yet, but it'll be sometime from mid-October through till December. I think E-group sign off is expected to be mid-December before everyone goes on holiday. They've got a draft timeline in there, but the dates aren't in the handbook yet. The big changes were moving to do it in workday. That's not available yet. I haven't seen a demo of it. I don't know what questions will be asked, but there's an optional self-evaluation, which will move into workday and the work that we do as managers will also happen in workday. At the moment, some people are using the Google Doc, which is listed on the talent assessment page for self-evaluations and for the manager work. I'd suggest continuing to use those docs until we get access to workday and see what the exact differences are. Each I and J are read only, unless anybody wants to discuss them. Thomas, you got item K. Yeah, apologies for the late live addition to the agenda on this one. But one more note on a change we're rolling out with insecure, pretty light weight in that we're establishing a second team within dynamic analysis. And so issue is there for folks that would like to follow along or ask any questions about it. The plan for right now is I'm going to be serving as a team, acting EM, and in addition to normally scheduled some duties for lack of a better way of putting it. And so happy to answer any questions if folks have about that. I had a quick question. We've done the same thing in three different sites with Neil and Tiago, each having teams. What are you going to call your new team or how will you differentiate? Was not planning to differentiate it. It's just a second team within dynamic analysis. We're not creating a new group, which I think is the same pattern that's happening within threat insights as well. It's just two teams. No, I know that there's tangerine and there's navy. I'm not a tangerine person myself. So we'll have to figure it out. Yeah, I don't know if it's another T-collar, Thomas. I struggled with that one. That's the theme. Tomato. I don't know. We'll figure it out. We'll figure it out. We'll figure it out. The differentiation, I think the difference between what's happening in threat insights and within dynamic analysis is that this is a split or long feature category. Even though we're keeping that we're not spreading the group, it is the distinction is along like who's working on specific feature categories themselves. So the the the where the fracture point is happening is a little difference, but the but the approach and effect are the same. I hope.",
      "related_docs": [
        {
          "page_content": "Error Budget 운영 정책 – SRE Handbook 2025-02 ...",
          "metadata": { "doc_id": "SRE-ERR-BUD", "doc_name": "Error_Budget_Policy.pdf" },
          "score": 0.88
        },
        {
          "page_content": "Container Security Weekly Bot 설정 가이드 ...",
          "metadata": { "doc_id": "SEC-BOT-CS", "doc_name": "ContainerSec_Bot_Guide.md" },
          "score": 0.79
        }
      ]
    },
    {
      "chunk_en": "So on to big rocks and hot issues section. I don't know if it's a big rock, but kind of long here, perhaps more. So did that survey where you got an awesome response rate from the team on how to improve the MRA for the team. And then I took a really long time to go through other results and summarize and make initial recommendations. So lost a little bit of momentum. I got caught up in other things like. Cross functional prioritization and a customer escalation. So since then, this is actually used by John Hope to lead a discussion at the development offsite last week on just improving engineering velocity is one of the things you use to power it. So it had value there, but I've seen no comments, I think, from anybody in this group, which means either no time forgot about it or it doesn't. We looked at it and it doesn't have much value and any of those things are okay. I'm just curious where. The group landed. And if you haven't taken a look yet to see if there's anything you want to take away from it on things you might want to consider. And that's going to do so. And to consider not to do, but to consider. Anybody got a chance to read it yet. And think about it or not just yet. It's not my guess is perhaps everybody's really busy and they haven't looked yet. I mean, at a high level, J. Neil Tiago, we've talked about changes. I think J. You've already looked at some changes around refinement. That was near that you were going to look at frame to abuse and report back by the end of the quarter. Tiago and Neil, I can't remember what we ended up with for freedom of science. Yeah, I mean, I think we're going to have to look at the same thing. Yeah, I'm hoping that MR rate is kind of an artifact or byproduct of some other actions. The big thing we're doing is more whole type of work like random miscellaneous, not scheduled not p.m. necessarily actions or issues. And that actually is creating some more additional work like it's just like free time work. I want to change of pace, move to something else more. And these are generally smaller type of issues to their quicker to knock out. Therefore they create more MR which has been a cool byproduct. So I think that's helping us succeed there. Yeah, we're also seeing some success with. We've implemented like a weekly refinement. Meeting. Kind of check in, make sure that stories are broken down. Tiny enough. I think with smaller bits of work, we're seeing a higher MR rate. It's debatable whether or not that's like. Just inflated, right? Like you can work on a small piece of code and ship it. And you can do that a lot of times you're going to get a higher MR rate. We're trying to be reasonable with that. I am noticing a nice tick up. After implementing the refinement. Meeting. So let's hope for the best. One note on. Good. I was going to say one note on refinements. In SAC analysis, we're experimenting with the new. Section in our planning feature. It's called looking forward. And in there, we're using. That is like a. A baseline where we add issues that we think need refinement. That will most likely be worked on in the next one to three milestones. So we're. Using that as kind of a base cover. For some engineer to go in. And add their issues and make sure they get refined within this milestone. Not necessarily any implementation. But just refinement itself. I should stop talking about mute. Thank you. Tom, if you want to verbalize your comment. Yeah, I'll verbalize and then I'll say more. And then I'll finish writing what I was going to put down underneath it in just a moment. So. This was an agenda item with the EMS and. I can say it now in the secure stage. I'm not sure if you can see it. I'm not sure if you can see it. I'm not sure if you can see it. I'm not sure if you can see it. I can say it now in the secure stage. That is the analyzer teams now. So this was this topic yesterday. So my, I would assume that this is more like, it's had a chance to read, but not digest the content. And. What I was about to write, and I am cautious in saying this, because it almost comes across as smug. And that is not my intent. In that. I'm not sure if you can see it. I'm not sure if you can see it. I'm not sure if you can see it. Looking at the MR rate. Within sec. Compared to company wide. Historically, it runs two to three MRs per engineer per month higher. And I think a good bit of that has to do with the. I mean, it, I mean, we've taken this to be true. Or at least asserted it to be true in that it's. Smaller teams that are working closely together in less busy. And I think that's the biggest impact that we have on this. And I think that's the biggest impact that we have on this. This platform itself, which does have an impact. It's. It does not to say that we cannot do better. But the comparison. The favorable comparison. At least to me, and I will admit this at times will lessen the urgency. On this particular topic. And I have to admit that bias that I have. I didn't see any comments in the issue, but that's totally fine. People found some of it useful. Some of the analysis useful. And that's great. So I will close the issue accordingly and just link to these notes. Good stuff. Thomas, you've got item B. Okay. All right, after this then. All right. That ramp and the cantor won't fix security issues that way. Maybe we may be having there's. So we've got them. So, the, the, the, the first security issues that are subject to Fed ramp. If we, if you have a feature category that is. Compliant or certified. You're probably going to be part of the Fed ramp evaluation and any security issue that has a CVE associated with it, which means dependency or container scanning specifically. Has to have a remediation plan, even if they're false positives. So we're going to have to have a remission on. What do we need to do? For. Do we need to do anything related to security findings on the commercial versions of analyzers specifically that was the catalyst for this particular conversation. Because on container scanning, we get a lot of findings related to Debbie and based images that that project has not shipped a fix for. So there is a separate thread that is going on here about what to do and can we do deviation requests in bulk for this class of, for this, for this class of findings. The, the, the T LDR is below. And there's a couple of all, there's a couple of all of options that are being brainstormed within this particular thread. So I wanted, and I know I've said a lot of words, and I didn't say it well. But I wanted to bring it here in case there was any questions or commentary. Nothing directly related to what you've just talked about but but sort of related for Feb ramp you're looking at any flips related security issues that have been raised. How far are you going in terms of auditing to find anything that hasn't already been identified. There is a link in another issue a separate issue that is give that has instructions from app sec on what they would like us to do as far as setting up container scanning. And they have set up a project with a single configuration that they're asking us to use. There is some debate as to as to how that project has been configured because it uses a combination of three container scanning tools rather than one. And, and so they've asked us to use that as a baseline for the FIPS images specifically, since they're you be or the UBI specific images. They're, they're equivalent in my mind, even though they're, they're, they're different meanings. So, TLD out talk to apse got it. So, George is our stable counterpart of folks don't know at least in sec. And so he's been quite responsive and keen and he is also helping chase down answers when when he doesn't have them so that's a big, he's been a big help us for. Yeah. Thanks for bringing this up, Thomas. So in the hallway, so from the development staff meeting meeting, I copy and pasted the notes in there but net is the TDR is can folks, the request to me and my peers as can folks check with their teams to see if the approvals are affecting them. So, this is the new approval rules on segregation of duties so this group, not that everybody's here, but in the group and they shouldn't be all meetings are optional, but have has this had an impact, these new approvals. I think totally I've seen a few cases where two members have realized that they need to get an additional approval. But I'm not aware that it's actually slowing things down. Okay. No news is good news on this problem, unless we miss unless unless it's happening and we're not noticing it, we're just slowing things down but just keep an eye on it in case it does. So good stuff. So, with recent changes. We've done a couple different changes with secure, bro, govern broken out from secure and a data ops team and this net is, I just compared the name of my team with my peers. My peers have one word team names ops dev create etc. Mine is second growth and data science, which is pretty wordy. It also makes it like when I go into dashboards I have to pull data from multiple places across my teams. So I was thinking about a one word name. I've started to get feedback on it naming things is really important at get lab to name the right kinds of things and give them good names. So I'm going to run it by David DeSanto tomorrow and see he's a great person to balance such things off of. I landed on enrichment because what we do makes other things better we enrich them. It's kind of a very broad term, but it does cover what we do. Not sure we're going to change the name, which I'm not sure it's going to affect anyone but me. That's actually my intent is it only affects my stuff not everyone else's. But maybe at least everyone else is in a small way or others in a small way but we'll see any thoughts on this. Good idea bad idea. I'm not way to this I'm looking for feedback. Yeah, obviously, the other examples relate to either sections or stages, whereas an enrichment doesn't say you'd be introducing something new here. This affects me as well. I have a subset of enrichment so it would be kind of enrichment light. I'm not sure. I'm not sure we'll I think you and I've spoken about this I'm not sure we would get approval to introduce a new name or department level. We'd certainly have to talk to people ops about introducing that in work day. Okay. So, a couple of things you know these kinds of things I would sometimes put in slack and I'm trying to avoid number of distinct slack messages so putting it in here, making a lot read only when possible so that see, though which is not really so I would like to add announcements of work anniversaries and new hires to the meeting template. PM does this I attended the PM staff meeting I was a guest speaker there this week, and like the camaraderie. We have good camaraderie the camaraderie there was pretty good. You know, Fern, who's shadowing me today I think he sat in on the PM meeting as well as some pretty good feel just people really knowing each other well and getting along well. So, those are just two things I took away from it is anniversaries and new hires. Oh, verbalize Chiago's comment. So, yeah, Tiago's great idea for new hires don't care much about work anniversaries very about for that. I always seem to miss the bottom announcements as they cover the whole company versus about just announcing for our team. If no interest in that part I'm happy to exclude the Neil you like the idea of adding. Yeah, I have a very good version you don't. I think it was Phil last week, I think it was Phil celebrated his third year, and I congratulated him but then I missed another team member in sec. You know because there's like 20 people in that list, plus it's team member updates that it's not a channel I look at a lot like weekly. I just happen to see that the day of so I do like being able to celebrate together in this group. Thanks, or praise section, like thanks for doing this. Great job on that. To remind ourselves to do that and engineers we tend to focus on the problems and challenges and not the celebrating the wins. Are you suggesting that we add new content into this document for that, or that we just linked to the slack announcements that we've already made. We don't want to do things to verbalize them. So maybe link to the slack announcements but also verbalize that I know it sounds like a bunch of busy work. I don't want to do things twice. Maybe add the sections and people use them as they see fit, whatever that happens to be, but please don't over. Don't create busy work for yourself either. So, so judgment call by each person. Thomas looks like you had a Thomas and money had some thoughts on this too. I like it. We don't celebrate enough. We don't do enough for team cohesion team celebration across the board, and just as a core later thing that I haven't communicated well. I was hoping to add this kind of thing to our monthly section wide retrospectives, new hires discretionary bonuses work anniversaries big feature releases. I mean, anything that we want to announce and celebrate we ought to make sure that it's. I don't want to say shout to the rooftops but we're shot to the heavens but but we, they're big deals. And we don't make and we undersell. Yeah, yeah. Oh, sorry. And hey, Fernando here so I'm shadowing Wayne now just to introduce myself from the technical marketing team. And I'm, I'll send the document right now, which is something that we do for our kind of get together team meetings. And it kind of shows. You can you can look through it I shared it to everyone on the zoom chat, but you can see that we provide updates, the new team members and small little introductions. And you can see sections that we have on gratitude and actual spotlights that we show like who we're actually praising what they've done that's good. And how we can highlight that because that will motivate employees, kind of really increase that morale because what we're seeing is these employees are actually getting recognized for good work that they've done. And they're getting shout outs because a lot of times, at least in our team, the cases we don't really, although we work with each other where we sometimes are kind of siloed busy working on different things so it's good to know what everyone's working on and what everyone's doing so and what related to to what you were just speaking on but just thought I'd share that. Thanks for Nanda. So, D. So I'm not going to read all of this from Daniel Croft, but summarizing he is looking for feedback on the development vision and mission and direction. We're brainstorming on in the development department on mission and vision in particular the approach is when everybody open up a little spreadsheet and follow the instructions anybody interested so if you're interested in doing so should take about 10 to 15 minutes. Please do it in the next week. Good stuff there. So we covered also the development offsite that Daniel took as an action item to follow up on. Thomas you've got you. Yep. Right, because I cannot remember. And so I'm hoping to crowdsource a little bit of this configuration archaeology so to speak. So is there a reason that we don't use reviewer roulette. If folks can remember the reason I'm asking is is contained within that thread but that is a tool that actually is being used to track if we have enough maintainers and any given project and since we don't use it, we're showing up. And so that's why I was, that's why I'm asking. When you say reviewer roulette, are you talking about on the individual analyzers. Yeah. Speaking only for DAS we haven't had a need for it because we have six engineers, but just going to rule that the same six people. Yeah, rule six sided died that's what I kind of think it is but it's from a larger, like, if the company, like where do we need more maintainers is the question is that the organization is asking. I'd suggest they're looking in the wrong place if they're looking in roulette to see to find out the number of maintainers that's the wrong place the engineering projects page should list all the maintainers if you set up your team and more entries correctly. I would have thought that was more the single source of truth. Apparently not. Yeah, I'm looking at the chart I mean I think on some of these projects we just haven't filled it out. I'll give you like we have the API. The club fuzz we have one engineer that works on it. So we haven't gone and added a maintainer there because they know who they are. So if we are trying to maintain that as a single source of truth we need to just go through and scrub it. I'm reminded of the map. I'm reminded of the Spider-Man meme with the two Spider-Man pointing at each other. Who's the reviewer who's the author it's it's the same person. It's been a long day so no punchy so but yes that makes sense. So, say that you saying you haven't added it to individual team members Yannol Farves in the handbook here. Right I believe for that one. I think just no entry for it. I mean we could. I think I think that should do it. Yeah, well it should. They shouldn't be using just roulette they should be using that as a source of truth and I think if you've listed maintenance that should cover it. The follow up question would be does that does that cover the senior plus engineers must be a maintainer requirement or not. I think you buried the lead the what do you call buried the lead. I took the read only off your comment there so you can. Well, we're going to end with the best news of the day. That's all. But it's, but the maintain a requirement. Yes, it does. I mean, because it's required for senior plus going back to that is just maintaining one or more I think is the requirement from our brookley. I'm not the Olivia news. Yeah, I know I was just making sure we were finished with the topic above. All right. And we're at time so I will move on and take that as a prompt. Yeah, Olivia has popped back on slack to announce that the newest addition to their family is here and happened over the weekend. So, so big, big congrats to his family for that and we'll be hoping to celebrate him. Later when he does when he when he returns to work. Google, thanks everybody. Have a great day.",
      "related_docs": [
        {
          "page_content": "FedRAMP 대응 보안 이슈 처리 절차 – AppSec Directive 2025-01 ...",
          "metadata": { "doc_id": "SEC-FDR-PROC", "doc_name": "FedRAMP_Sec_Issues.md" },
          "score": 0.9
        },
        {
          "page_content": "Dynamic Analysis 팀 구조 변경 제안서 ...",
          "metadata": { "doc_id": "DA-TEAM-SPLIT", "doc_name": "DynAnalysis_TeamSplit.pptx" },
          "score": 0.84
        }
      ]
    }
  ],
  "all_documents": [
    {
      "page_content": "Talent assessment – draft timeline (Workday migration) ...",
      "metadata": { "doc_id": "HR-TA-TIMELINE", "doc_name": "Talent_Assessment_Timeline.gdoc" },
      "score": 0.72
    }
  ],

  "elapsed_time": 0.05,
  "error": null
}
